The World's History, 5th edition, Howard Spodek.

## Why History?
The professional historian and the student of an introductory course often seem to pass each other on different tracks. For the professional, nothing is more fascinating than history. For the student, particularly one in a compulsory course, the whole enterprise often seems a bore. The introductory text is designed to help the student to understand and share the fascination of the historian. It will also remind professors of their original attraction to history, before they began the specialization that has almost certainly marked their later careers. Furthermore, it encourages student and professor to explore together the history of the world and the significance of this study.

Professional historians love their field for many reasons. History offers perspective and guidance in forming a personal view of human development. It teaches the necessity of seeing many sides of issues. It explores the complexity and interrelationship of events and makes possible the search for patterns and meaning in human life.

Historians love to debate - the challenge of demonstrating that their interpretations of the pattern and significance of events are the most accurate and the most satisfying in their fit between the available data and theory. Historians also love the detective work of the profession, whether it is searching through old archives, uncovering and using new sources of information, or reinterpreting long-ignored sources. In recent years historians have turned, for example, to oral history, old church records, files of photographs, cave paintings, individual census records, and reinterpretation of mythology.

Historical records are not simply lists of events, however. They are the means by which historians develop their interpretation of those events. Because interpretation differs, there is no single historical record, but various narrations of events each told from a different perspective. Therefore the study of history is intimately linked to the study of values, the values of the historical actors, of the historians who have written about them, and of the students engaged in learning about them.

Professional historians consider history to be the king of disciplines. Synthesizing the concepts of fellow social scientists in economics, politics, anthropology, sociology, and geography, historians create a more integrated and comprehensive interpretation of the past. Joining with their colleagues in the humanities, historians delight in hearing and telling exciting stories that recall heroes and villains, the low-born and the high, the wisdom and the folly of days gone by. Increasingly, history also includes the history of science - its discoveries, its methods, and its implications for philosophy, technology, and human life. This fusion of the social sciences, humanities, and natural sciences gives the study of history its range, depth, significance, and pleasure. Training in historical thinking provides an excellent introduction to understanding change and continuity in our own day as well as in the past.

## Why World History?
Why specifically world history? Why should we teach and study world history, and what should be the content of such a course?

First, world history is a good place to begin for it is new field for professor and student alike. Neither its content nor its pedagogy is yet fixed. Many of existing textbooks on the market still have their origins in the study of Western Europe, with segments added to cover the rest of the world. World History as the study of the interrelationships of all regions of the world, seen from the many perspectives of the different peoples of the earth, is till virgin territory.

* pedagogy: the study of the methods and activities of teaching. 教学法，教育学。

Second, for citizens of multicultural, multiethnic nations such as the United States, Canada, South Africa, and India, and of many other countries, such as the United Kingdom, Australia, and most nations of the European Union, which are moving in that direction, a world history course offers the opportunity to gain an appreciation of the national and cultural origins of all their diverse fellow citizens. In this way, the study of world history may help to strengthen the bonds of national citizenship.

Third, as the entire world becomes a single unit for interaction, it becomes an increasingly appropriate subject for historical study. The new reality of global interaction in communication, business, politics, religion, culture, and ecology has helped to generate the new academic subject of world history.
