Learning English is by no means easy. It takes great diligence and prolonged effort.

* diligence: the quality of working carefully and with a lot of effort. 勤奋，认真。
* prolonged: continuing for a long time. 长期的。

Nevertheless, while you cannot expect to gain a good command of english without sustained hard hark, there are various helpful strategies you can employ to make the task easier. Here are some of them.

* a good command of: 对……掌握的很好。
* employ: to use something. 使用，利用。

1. Do not treat all new words in exactly the same way. Have you ever complained about your memory because you find it simply impossible to memorize all the new words you are learning? But, in fact, it is not your memory that is at fault. If you cram your head with too many new words at a time, some of them are bound to be crowded out. What you need to do is to deal with new words in different ways according to how frequently they occur in everyday use. While active words demand constant practice and useful words must be committed to memory, words that do not often occur in everyday situations require just a nodding acquaintance. You will find concentrating on active and useful words the most effective route to enlarging your vocabulary.

* at fault: If someone or something is **at fault**, they are to blame or are responsible for a particular situation that has gone wrong. 有过错，有责任。
* cram: to force a lot of things into a small space. 塞满。
* bound: certain or extremely likely to happen. 必定。

2. Watch out for idiomatic ways of saying things. Have you ever wondered why we say, "I'm interested in English", but "I am good at French"? And have you ever asked yourself why native English speakers say, "learn the news or secret", but "learn of someone's success or arrival"? These are all examples of idiomatic usage. In learning English, you must pay attention not only to the meaning of a word, but also to the way native speakers use it in their daily lives.

* idiomatic: containing expressions that are natural and correct.（语言）自然地道的。

3. Listen to English every day. Listening to English on a regular basis will not only improve your ear, but will also help you build your speaking skills. In addition to language tapes especially prepared for your course, you can also listen to English radio broadcasts, watch English TV, and see English movies. The first time you listen to a taped conversation or passage in English, you may not be able to catch a great deal. Try to get its general meaning first and listen to it over and over again. You will find that with each repetition you will get something more.

* on a regular basis: 经常地，定期地。

4. Seize opportunities to speak. It is true that there are few situations at school where you have to communicate in English, but you can seek out opportunities to practice speaking the language. Talking with your classmates, for example, can be an easy and enjoyable way to get some practice. Also try to find native speakers on your campus and feel free to talk with them. Perhaps the easiest way to practice speaking is to rehearse aloud, since this can be done at any time, in any place, and without a partner. For instance, you can look at pictures and objects around you and try to describe them in detail. You can also rehearse everyday situations. After you have made a purchase in a shop of finished a meal in a restaurant and paid the check, pretend that all this happened in an English-speaking country and try to act it out in English.

5. Read widely. It is important to read widely because in our learning environment, reading is the main and most reliable source of language input. When you choose reading materials, look for things that you find interesting, that you can understand without relying too much on a dictionary. A page a day is a good way to start. As you go on, you will find that you can do more pages a day and handle materials at a higher level of difficulty.

6. Write regularly. Writing is a good way to practice what you already know. Apart from compositions assigned by your teacher, you may find your own reasons for writing. A pen pal provides good motivation; you will learn a lot by trying to communicate with someone who shares your interests, but comes from a different culture. Other ways to write regularly include keeping a diary, writing a short story and summarizing the daily news.

Language learning is a process of accumulation. It pays to absorb as much as you can from reading and listening and then try to put what you learned into practice through speaking and writing.

* it pays to absorb: 有益于吸收：表示吸收知识、信息或经验等对个人有益。
