They say that blood is thicker than water, that our relatives are more important to us than others. Everyone was so kind to the old lady on her birthday. Surely hre daughter would make an even bigger effort to please her?

It was the old lady's birthday.

She got up early to be ready for the post. From the second floor flat she could see the postman when he came down the street, and the little boy from the ground floor brought up her letters on the rare occasions when anything came.

Today she was sure there would be something. Myra wouldn't forget her mother's birthday, even if she seldom wrote at other times. Of course Myra was busy. Her husband had been made Mayor, and Myra herself had got a medal for he work for the aged.

* medal: a small metal disc, with words or a picture on it, given as a reward for a brave action, for winning a competition, or to remember a special event.

The old lady was proud of Myra, but Enid was the daughter she loved. Enid had never married, but had seemed content to live with here mother, and teach in a primary school round the comer.

One evening, however, Enid said, "I've arranged for Mrs. Morrison to look after you for a few days, Mother. Tomorrow I have to go into hospital - just a mirror operation. I'll soon be home."

In the morning she went, but never came back - she died on the operating table. Myra came to the funeral, and in her efficient way arranged for Mrs. Morrison to come and light the fire and give the old lady her breakfast.

Two years ago that was, and since the Myra had been to see her mother three times, but her husband never.

The old lady was eighty today. She had put on her best dress. Perhaps - perhaps Myra might come. After all, eighty was a special birthday, another decade lived or endured just as you chose to look at it.

Even if Myra did not come, she would send a present. The old lady was sure of that. Two spots of colour brightened her cheeks. She was excited - like a child. She would enjoy her day.

Yesterday Mrs. Morrison had given the flat an extra clean, and today she had brought a card and a bunch of marigolds when she came to do the breakfast. Mrs. Grant downstairs had made a cake, and in the afternoon she was going to down there to eat. The little boy, Johnnie, had been up with a packet of mints, and said he wouldn't go out to play until the post had came.

* marigold: a plant with bright yellow or orange flowers. 万寿菊

"I guess you'll get lots and lots of presents," he said. "I did last week when I was six."

What would she like? A pair of slippers perhaps. Or a new cardigan. A cardigan would be lovely. Blue's such a pretty colour. Jim had always liked her in blue. Or a table lamp. Or a book, a travel book, with pictures, or a little clock, with clear black numbers. So many lovely thing.

* cardigan: a piece of clothing, usually made from wool, that covers the upper part of the body and the arms, fastening at the front with buttons, and usually worn over other clothes. 羊毛衫

She stood by the window, watching. The postman turned round the corner on his bicycle. Her heart beat fast. Johnnie had seen him too and ran to the gate.

The clatter, clatter up the stairs. Johnnie knocked at her door.

* clatter: to make continuous loud noises by hitting hard objects against each other, or to cause objects to do this. 发出响亮的撞击声

"Granny, granny," he shouted, "I've got your post."

He gave her four envelops. Three were unsealed cards from old friends. The fourth was sealed, in Myra's writing. The old lady felt a pang of disappointment.

* pang: a sudden sharp feeling, especially of painful emotion. 一阵剧痛；（尤指）悲痛

No parcel, Johnnie?

No, granny.

Maybe the parcel was too large to come by letter post. That was it. It would come later by parcel post. She must be patient.

Almost reluctantly she tore the envelop open. Folded in the card was a piece of paper. Written on the card was message under the printed Happy Birthday - Buy yourself something nice with the cheque, Myra and Harold.

The cheque fluttered to the floor like a bird with a broken wing. Slowly the old lady stooped to pick it up. Her present, her lovely present. With trembling fingers she tore it into little bits.
