Of all figures from American's past, Abraham Lincoln is dearest to the hearts of the American people. In fact, the admiration they have for him border on worship. Writers note that the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, D.C. is not unlike the temples that ancient Greeks built in public places have sometimes had characteristics of religious services. Certainly Lincoln is American's ideal of a great leader. He had many of the qualities of leadership that Americans admire.

* border: to form a line around the edge of something. 在……上加边，给……镶边；围，沿着。

First of all, Lincoln's career fits a popular American belief that every child can dream of becoming President. Americans admire the self-made person - the one who, with neither money nor family influence, fights his or her way to the top. Lincoln was born of poor parents. His mother died when he was young. He had little opportunity for schooling. His early study was done alone at night by the light of a fireplace. He did hard manual labor through the day - splitting rails for fences, taking care of livestock, working on a riverboat or in a store. But as he grew older he studied law in his spare time and became a lawyer. He was a good speaker and student of political philosophy. His ability finally made a name for him and eventually he became President of the United States.

* livestock: animals and birds that are kept on a farm, such as cows, sheep, or chickens. 牲畜；家畜；家禽。

Lincoln is also admired because of his leadership during the difficult period of the Civil War. He dared to do what he thought was right at a time when his beliefs were unpopular with many people. He, in a sense, represents the spirit of union among the states. Before the Civil War, the economy of the South depended on an agricultural system which made use of slave labor. When reformers in the northern states put pressure on Congress not to permit slavery in western territories that later became states, some of the southern states wanted to secede, or withdraw, from the United States. The national government said that no state had the right to secede, and the Civil War was the result. If the South had won the war, what is now the United States might well have been divided into several countries. Lincoln worked hard to preserve the union, and the northern states were victorious.

* secede: to become independent of a country or area of government. 退出，脱离（国家或政府）。
* preserve: to keep something as it is, especially in order to prevent it from decaying or being damaged or destroyed. 保护，维护；保留；保养。

Furthermore, Lincoln had many personal qualities that made him dear to the hearts of his countrymen. He had infinite patience and tolerance for those who disagreed with him. Ad President, appointed men to high government positions whom he considered most capable even though some of them openly scorned him. He was generous to his opponents. There are many stories about his thoughtful treatment of southern leaders. When the war was over, he showed the South no hatred. Since generosity toward a defeated opponent is admired by Americans, Lincoln fitted the national ideal of what is right.

* generous: willing to give money, help, kindness, etc., especially more than is usual or expected.（尤指超乎一般或期望地）慷慨的，大方的；宽宏大量的，仁慈的。
* hatred: an extremely strong feeling of dislike. 憎恨，憎恶。

Shortly after the Civil War ended, Lincoln was shot while attending a play in a Washington theater. He died within a few hours. The uncontrolled emotional reaction of the nation to his death was almost unbelievable and demonstrated the deep esteem in which he was held. Newspapers were edged with black, religious leaders gave praise of Lincoln instead of their prepared sermons. His funeral procession in Washington was miles long. Lincoln's body was taken by train passed , the coffin was paraded through streets lined with sorrowful thousands. In the small towns through which the train passed, bells rang in honor of the dead President. Citizens lit torches along the railroad track to show their last respects.

* sermon: a part of a Christian church ceremony in which a priest gives a talk on a religious or moral subject, often based on something written in the Bible. 布道，讲道。
* coffin: a long box in which the body of a dead person is buried or burned. 棺材；灵柩。
* parade: a large number of people walking or in vehicles, all going in the same direction, usually as part of a public celebration of something.（庆祝）游行。

The circumstances of his death set Lincoln apart from other American leaders. Has Lincoln lived, it might well be that his postwar policies would have brought criticisms upon him that would have tarnished his popularity. Instead, an assassin's bullet erased in the minds of Americans any faults he had and emphasized his virtues.

* tarnish : to make people think that someone or something is less good. 诽谤；中伤。
